Add historical roles (#324)
MDAnalysis/MDAnalysis.github.io: pages/team.md

---
layout: page
title: MDAnalysis team
---

MDAnalysis is a community-driven project that is made possible through the efforts of many members who contribute in numerous and diverse ways, ranging from direct package development, maintenance, documentation, communication, and managerial responsibilities. On this page we list identified project roles and those historically responsible for the tasks. In the future, we plan to also list the contributors currently responsible for overseeing and managing associated tasks. We note that the listed roles on this page can differ significantly in scope and required effort.

> 

Reviewer: The community is somewhat small and I think there is good historical knowledge. But maybe worth adding something on the lines of "if you have participated to MDAnalysis in the past and feel your previous/historical role could be better characterised, please contact us at [...]"?

Author: Thanks for this note @RMeli, I've used mdanalysis@numfocus.org for now but that may be too broad of a destination.

> ## Roles

Reviewer: How far back the historical roles go?

Author: I'm guessing 1-2 years? I've updated the page with these notes but not entirely certain what people were thinking as they filled out the spreadsheet!

Reviewer: Not sure either, but I think it's good to specify. How you wrote it now sounds great IMO, thanks!

Reviewer 2: Probably a bit more than that, I would say roughly 2020 - that would better coincide with some of the data we used for things like PR & issue comments.

Author: Updated!

| [Relicensing coordinator](#relicensing-coordinator)      |                                | Irfan Alibay                                                            |
| [External liaison](#external-liaison)             |                                | Irfan Alibay                                                            |
| [Code of conduct committee](#code-of-conduct-committee)    |                                | Jenna Swarthout Goddard, Micaela Matta, Richard Gowers                  |

## Responsibilities

In this section we briefly describe the tasks and duties of each role.

### Core library maintenance

#### Issue management
- Initial triage and tagging of issues
- Managing timely responses to issues
- Resolving issues

#### Pull request management
- Reviewing, shepherding, and merging pull requests

#### General maintenance
- Standards compliance (e.g. managing metadata such as the author list)
- Tracking new dependencies
- Emergency fixes
- Other maintenance

### Continuous integration
- Building and developing new CI infrastructure
- Monitoring status
- Maintenance and fixes

### Releases and deployment

> - Monitor upstream and downstream package changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Monitoring upstream and downstream package changes
```
For consistency

- Updates and fixes for upstream and downstream packages
- Managing future release plans and timing
- Carrying out releases
- Maintaining continuous deployment infrastructure
- Monitoring issues in core library and sub-projects

### Non-core library maintenance
- Managing issues and pull-requests for sub-projects
- Managing new features and updates
- Managing maintenance
- Working with CI and CD team and infrastructure

### MDAKits registry
- Managing submissions to MDAKits registry
- Managing manual review process of new MDAKits
- Managing automated test and badge infrastructure of all MDAKits
- Manage helping with MDAKits who need assistance

### Documentation
- Managing UserGuide repositories and main core documentation
- Managing MDAnalysis Sphinx theme
- Managing documentation-related utilities and architecture
- Managing new issues and PRs related to documentation
- Keeping documentation updated
- Responding to documentation issues in sub-projects

### Outreach

#### Workshops and meetings
- Identifying workshop and event opportunities
- Organising workshops and events

> - Gathering and coordinate volunteers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Gathering and coordinating volunteers
```

- Managing content, presentations and teaching at workshops
- Manage material maintenance on GitHub

#### Mentoring
- Mentoring-related administrative tasks
- Advertising opportunities
- Mentoring in structured programs

### Social media
- General management and administration
- Posting announcements of new developments
- Moderating content

> - Managing Twitter and LinkedIn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Managing X and LinkedIn
```

- Managing new content to the MDAnalysis website and blog

### Community engagement
- Responding to questions on Discord and mailing lists
- Managing and triaging conversations on Discord and mailing lists

### Governance
- Managing roadmap planning and the "big picture"
- Organising meetings
- Coordinating elections of core developers
- Onboarding new core developers
- Managing other roles in the organisation and general task lists
- Gathering usage and community metrics

### Relicensing coordinator
- Researching the steps required to change licenses
- Coordinating the choice to a new license
- Contacting existing developers to solicit agreement
- Ensuring new developers agree to a new license
- Managing the switch to a new license

### External liaison

> - Coordinate and connect with affiliated organisations, e.g. NumFocuse

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Coordinate and connect with affiliated organisations, e.g. NumFOCUS
```

- Coordinate participation in external projects

> - Coordinate with potential industry interest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Coordinate with potential industry partners
```

---
layout: page
title: MDAnalysis team
---

> MDAnalysis is a community-driven project that is made possible through the efforts of many members who contribute in numerous and diverse ways, ranging from direct package development, maintenance, documentation, communication, and managerial responsibilities. On this page we list identified project roles and those historically responsible for the tasks. In the future, we plan to also list the contributors currently responsible for overseeing and managing associated tasks. We note that the listed roles on this page can differ significantly in scope and required effort.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
MDAnalysis is a community-driven project that is made possible through the efforts of many members who contribute in numerous and diverse ways, ranging from direct package development, maintenance, documentation, communication, and managerial responsibilities. On this page we list identified project roles, current leads and supporting team members for each of those roles, and those historically responsible for the tasks. We note that the listed roles on this page can differ significantly in scope and required effort.
```

Reviewer 3: As decided in the coredevs meeting, we would like to publish the 'Current' table alongside the 'Historical' when this goes up

## Roles

In this section we list contributors who have led or contributed substantial effort to the roles listed below.

> At present, we have only listed leading figures from the past 2-3 years, i.e. from 2020 onwards.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At present, the current teams represent those who have been leading figures during the past 2-3 years (i.e., from 2020 onwards).
```

Reviewer 3: Again, suggesting wording to be consistent with posting the current leads. We may also want to consider adding a line about what our process will be moving forward. For instance, do we want to do an annual (perhaps alongside the annual core dev roll call) review/update of the table? This way there would be an indication of the minimum time commitment someone is making by taking on a role.

Author: > We may also want to consider adding a line about what our process will be moving forward. For instance, do we want to do an annual (perhaps alongside the annual core dev roll call) review/update of the table? 

If that reflects the process we'd be happy to, but this might be something that all the core devs need to agree on first (unless it was discussed at the last core dev meeting) -- it doesn't seem like a decision that @fiona-naughton and I can make by ourselves. Given that the next core devs meeting is a while away, maybe we can resolve that here -- @MDAnalysis/coredevs, does an annual review of roles sound good to you? Does signing up for a role here imply a minimum commitment of a year?

Author: I've changed this text to reflect that we now have a "Current" column as well, and to add Jenna's note on when the team organisation structure was started.

Reviewer 4: Annual review of the table sounds like a good idea, and we might as well do all of these "annual reviews" at the same time.

I am not so sure that this automatically implies the minimum commitment; that seems to be a more nuanced question which could go either way of 1 year.

Author: I've added this wording into the text -- nailing down minimum time commitments and role reviews may need to happen further down the line, so resolving this conversation for now!

However, we hope to eventually acknowledge everyone who has been responsible for a particular role throughout

> the lifetime of the project.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
the lifetime of the project.

This organisation in teams started in the fall of 2023. Many people contributed to these tasks before then and may not appear in the table.
```

Reviewer 6: Thanks for the suggestion - I do think this is a good clarification to make; but leaving for now since I agree with Jenna's comment below to move this a little higher in the text

Author: It's now been added to the text!

> If you have participated to MDAnalysis in the past and feel your previous/historical role could be better characterised,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have participated to MDAnalysis in the past and your name is missing or you feel your previous/historical role could be better characterised,
```

> please contact us at mdanalysis@numfocus.org to let us know!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
please contact us at mdanalysis@numfocus.org to let us know. We also invite community members to reach out to mdanalysis@numfocus.org or the current team members if they are interested in filling missing roles or joining an existing team!
```

> | Role                         | Sub-role                       | Historical                                                              |

Reviewer 2: One of the main questions I have about this table is "how will this look tomorrow" - i.e. how will this table change to include "current" folks in the next update?

Mostly thinking about how the information flow will make sense when that happens.

Reviewer 6: My thought was to just add a "current people" column, and highlight that as separate from the historic people, but that may not be the most ideal?

Reviewer 2: Yeah I'm sorta thinking "what if historic is current" - which I guess is fair, it just makes history complicated.

Reviewer 2: The other question I had was about leads & such but I think that can wait.

Author: My eventual vision was as Fiona mentioned, a table with the headers | Role | Subrole | Lead | Subgroup | Historical | (historical at the end). 

I agree it could be messy to have repeated names and I was thinking of removing names from "historical" if they were also current. We could also leave them in and just keep the messiness. Unless we start defining things even further by specific periods of time, I'm not sure how to avoid either scenario.

Reviewer 2: It doesn't have to be dealt with immediately, it was mostly a curiosity about how the table will eventually look. At the end of the day something is better than nothing.

Author: Another option is to have "historical" as a totally separate section, but that could be repetitive.

> | Role                         | Sub-role                       | Historical                                                              |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Role                         | Sub-role                       | Current Team  (leads are bolded)                                                             | Historical                                                            |
```

Reviewer 3: Suggested headers for reorganizing the table such that it includes current team members. I won't make these changes throughout since I don't want to mess with the Markdown table formatting until we have reached consensus on whether this is how we would like to organize everything.

Author: Changed!

|------------------------------|--------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | [Core library maintenance](#core-library-maintenance)     | [Issue management](#issue-management)               | Oliver Beckstein, Irfan Alibay                                          |

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| [Core library maintenance](#core-library-maintenance)     | [Issue management](#issue-management)               | Oliver Beckstein, Irfan Alibay, Jonathan Barnoud                        |
```

> | [Core library maintenance](#core-library-maintenance)     | [Pull request management](#pull-request-management)        | Oliver Beckstein, Richard Gowers, Irfan Alibay, Hugo MacDermott-Opeskin |

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| [Core library maintenance](#core-library-maintenance)     | [Pull request management](#pull-request-management)        | Oliver Beckstein, Richard Gowers, Irfan Alibay, Hugo MacDermott-Opeskin, Jonathan Barnoud |
```

> | [Core library maintenance](#core-library-maintenance)     | [General maintenance](#general-maintenance)            | Irfan Alibay                                                            |

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| [Core library maintenance](#core-library-maintenance)     | [General maintenance](#general-maintenance)            | Irfan Alibay, Jonathan Barnoud                                          |
```

| [Continuous Integration](#continuous-integration)       |                                | Irfan Alibay                                                            |

> | [Releases and deployment](#releases-and-deployment)      |                                | Irfan Alibay                                                            |

Reviewer 5: Richard has been doing the releases for years. Shouldn't he appear here? He should probably be almost everywhere in the table, but here in particular, it seems relevant if it is indeed titled "Historical".

| [Non-core library maintenance](#non-core-library-maintenance) | mda-encore                     | Ian Kenney                                                              |
| [Non-core library maintenance](#non-core-library-maintenance) | hole2-mdakit                   | Ian Kenney                                                              |
| [Non-core library maintenance](#non-core-library-maintenance) | benchmarks                     | Oliver Beckstein                                                        |
| [Non-core library maintenance](#non-core-library-maintenance) | GridDataFormats                | Irfan Alibay, Oliver Beckstein                                          |
| [Non-core library maintenance](#non-core-library-maintenance) | MDAnalysisData                 | Oliver Beckstein                                                        |
| [Non-core library maintenance](#non-core-library-maintenance) | mda-xdrlib and other utilities | Irfan Alibay                                                            |

> | [Non-core library maintenance](#non-core-library-maintenance) | pyedr                          | Irfan Alibay                                                            |

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| [Non-core library maintenance](#non-core-library-maintenance) | pyedr                          | Irfan Alibay, Jonathan Barnoud                                          |
```

| [MDAKits registry](#mdakits-registry)             |                                | Irfan Alibay                                                            |
| [Documentation](#documentation)                |                                | Lily Wang, Irfan Alibay                                                 |
| [Outreach](#outreach)                     | [Workshops and meetings](#workshops-and-meetings)         | Micaela Matta, Irfan Alibay                                             |

> | [Outreach](#outreach)                     | [Mentoring](#mentoring)                      | Jenna Swarthout Goddard, Oliver Beckstein                               |

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| [Outreach](#outreach)                     | [Mentoring](#mentoring)                      | Jenna Swarthout Goddard, Oliver Beckstein, Jonathan Barnoud             |
```

---
layout: page
title: MDAnalysis team
---

MDAnalysis is a community-driven project that is made possible through the efforts of many members who contribute in numerous and diverse ways, ranging from direct package development, maintenance, documentation, communication, and managerial responsibilities. On this page we list identified project roles, current leads and supporting team members for each of those roles, and those historically responsible for the tasks. We note that the listed roles on this page can differ significantly in scope and required effort.

## Roles

> In this section we list major contributors who are leading or contributing substantial effort to the roles listed below. The **Current** column lists all those who are currently responsible for a particular role, from 2023–2024. In addition, we list past leading figures from 2020 onwards in the "Historical contributors" column. As this team organisation structure was started in November 2023, many people contributed to these tasks before then and may not appear in this table, in particular the [emeritus core developers]({{ site.url }}/about/#mdanalysis-emeriti-core-developers).

Author: I added here that the "current" column is for those currently responsible for a role, from 2023 to 2024.

Reviewer 4: I would write the link as 
```markdown
[emeritus core developers]({{ site.url }}{% link about.md %}#mdanalysis-emeriti-core-developers)
```
because `{% link ... %}` runs link validation when building the site.

Reviewer 4: "leading figures" sounds a bit as if we are listing celebrities. Could we do a more humble "major contributors" or similar?

Reviewer 3: I added a suggested change to address @orbeckst's "leading figures" comment above

Author: Changed the wording post-Irfan's commit.

> In this section we list major contributors who are leading or contributing substantial effort to the roles listed below. The **Current** column lists all those who are currently responsible for a particular role, from 2023–2024. In addition, we list past leading figures from 2020 onwards in the "Historical contributors" column. As this team organisation structure was started in November 2023, many people contributed to these tasks before then and may not appear in this table, in particular the [emeritus core developers]({{ site.url }}/about/#mdanalysis-emeriti-core-developers).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this section we list major contributors who are leading or contributing substantial effort to the roles listed below.

### The **Current** column

This lists all those who are currently responsible for a particular role, from November 14th 2023 to November 14th 2024.

### The "Historical 2021-2023" column

Here we list past leading figures from 2021 to November 14th 2023 in the "Historical lead contributors" column.

### A note on historical contributions

As this team organisation structure was started in November 2023, many people contributed to these tasks before then and may not appear in this table, in particular the [emeritus core developers]({{ site.url }}/about/#mdanalysis-emeriti-core-developers).
```

Reviewer 4: I like breaking down the definitions of the columns. Can we link each definition to the table's column heading via a hyperlinked footnote?

> In this section we list major contributors who are leading or contributing substantial effort to the roles listed below. The **Current** column lists all those who are currently responsible for a particular role, from 2023–2024. In addition, we list past leading figures from 2020 onwards in the "Historical contributors" column. As this team organisation structure was started in November 2023, many people contributed to these tasks before then and may not appear in this table, in particular the [emeritus core developers]({{ site.url }}/about/#mdanalysis-emeriti-core-developers).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this section we list major contributors who are leading or contributing substantial effort to the roles listed below. The **Current** column lists all those who are currently responsible for a particular role, from 2023–2024. In addition, we list major contributors from 2020 onwards in the "Historical contributors" column. As this team organisation structure was started in November 2023, many people contributed to these tasks before then and may not appear in this table, in particular the [emeritus core developers]({{ site.url }}/about/#mdanalysis-emeriti-core-developers).
```

> However, we hope to eventually acknowledge everyone who has been responsible for a particular role throughout the lifetime of the project.

Reviewer 4: Yes, #336 !!!

If you have participated to MDAnalysis in the past and your name is missing or you feel your previous/historical role could be better characterised,

> please contact us at mdanalysis@numfocus.org to let us know. We also invite community members to reach out to mdanalysis@numfocus.org or the current team members if they are interested in filling missing roles or joining an existing team!

Reviewer 4: sounds good!
